Added history backfilling instruction (#410)
stellar/docs: software/known-issues.md

    - [Reasons for this error](#reasons-for-this-error)
        - [mismatched core/Horizon configurations](#mismatched-corehorizon-configurations)
            - [Missing cursors](#missing-cursors)
            - [Mismatch policy between core and Horizon](#mismatch-policy-between-core-and-horizon)

>         - [corrupt database](#corrupt-database)

Reviewer: Could you make it uppercase everywhere?

Author: done

KNOWN_CURSORS=["HORIZON"]
```

#### Mismatch policy between core and Horizon

> When running core with partial history `CATCHUP_COMPLETE=false` core's policy is to keep up to the network with a contiguous tail of at least `CATCHUP_RECENT` ledgers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When running core with partial history `CATCHUP_COMPLETE=false`, core's policy is to keep up with the network with a contiguous tail of at least `CATCHUP_RECENT` ledgers.
```

5. call "newdb" on the core instance to reset core's database
6. start up stellar-core normally, wait for it to be in "Synced!" state
7. start up Horizon, it should be able to see that core has data to ingest

# Backfilling history

> You have a core instance that works properly (close ledgers), but you realize

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this case, you have a stellar-core instance that works properly (it has the ability to close ledgers without error), but you realize
```

> that for some reason its history is incomplete, in the sense that the oldest

Reviewer 2: What does old enough mean? The genesis ledger? It feels like this should actually be defined.

Author: this is related to Horizon concepts (related to how ingestion works).
this document is probably not the right place to define those as they are generic

ledger available for Horizon to import is not old enough.

> Reasons that can lead to this include some of the problems that can lead to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Many of the same reasons that can lead to this issue include some of the same problems that lead to
```

> [Gaps Detected](#gaps-detected).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[gaps being detected](#gaps-detected).
```

## Check your configuration

Follow the steps in [mismatched core/Horizon configurations](#mismatched-corehorizon-configurations)

In particular, if the reason you have missing data is because of
garbage collection, you want to make sure that it doesn't happen again in the
future!

## Recovery process

Important, before attempting any recovery process:

> * make sure that your configuration is correct (and if not adjust it)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Make sure that your configuration is correct (and if not adjust it)
```

Should likely link back to the steps to actually adjust the configuration

> * **BACKUP** all data on your core node

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **BACKUP** all data on your stellar-core node.
```

### Reset everything

The easiest way to recover is to [reset everything](#reset-everything).

> This will take some (time for machines) but doesn't require manual intervention.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will take some time (for machines) but doesn't require manual intervention.
```

Author: done

> This will take some time (for machines) but doesn't require manual intervention.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This will take some time for the running processes, but it doesn't require manual intervention.
```

### Manually backfill history

The general idea behind this method is to construct the missing data on a

> separate stellar-core instance, followed by an "import" into the real instance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
separate stellar-core instance, followed by an "import" into the instance you are trying to recover.
```

Note that **Horizon does not support backfilling**: it will have to reingest all

> data from core.

Reviewer: There's `horizon db backfill [COUNT]` command. So I think that when you download `LOW_LEDGER .. ORIGINAL_LOW_LEDGER` ledgers using a new stellar-core instance you could then switch Horizon to the new Core instance and use `backfill` command.

Reviewer 3: @bartekn When I ran horizon db backfill, I couldn't get it to load the starting point correct, which is defined in this line:
`start := ledger.CurrentState().HistoryElder` (system.go:20)
It would instead make the start = 0 and I couldn't get it to backfill.

Maybe it would be useful if we can extend the `horizon db reingest` command to backfill a range that the user can specify. What do you think about that?

Reviewer: You are experiencing this because either your history DB is empty or a bug in Horizon (`ledger` state is not updated before it's first called in `system.go:20` as it's part of the ticking service). Can you file a bug in `stellar/go`? The fix is rather easy (update the `ledger` state before starting any Horizon CLI command).

Author: Feel free to open a PR to document backfilling in Horizon to complement this guide: that said I'd like to keep this guide as simple as possible; I imagine that using this feature comes with a bunch of "gotchas".

Reviewer: OK! FYI it has been fixed: https://github.com/stellar/go/pull/723.

#### Preparation steps

1. Stop Horizon.

> 2. Set the `HORIZON` cursor to 0 (as to stop garbage collection from doing anything)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Set the `HORIZON` cursor to 0 (which will stop garbage collection from continuing)
```

```
stellar-core --conf X.conf 'setcursor?id=HORIZON&cursor=0'
```

> 3. Stop your stellar-core instance

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Stop your stellar-core instance.
```

> 4. Connect to your core database, and run

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Connect to your stellar-core database, and run:
```

```sql
SELECT ledgerseq FROM ledgerheaders ORDER BY ledgerseq ASC LIMIT 1;
```

> this will return the _smallest_ ledger that your core instance knows about.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This will return the _smallest_ ledger that your core instance currently knows about.
```

We'll call this value `ORIGINAL_LOW_LEDGER` for now on.

We'll call `LOW_LEDGER` the value that you want in history.

#### Reconstruction steps

Steps here are going to reconstruct history for the range `LOW_LEDGER .. ORIGINAL_LOW_LEDGER`

> 1. Prepare a fresh new core instance with a similar configuration file

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Prepare a fresh new stellar-core instance with a similar configuration file.
```

>     * use a different database, sqlite even

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * Use a different database, sqlite even
```

Reviewer 2: Actually:

```suggestion
    * Use a different database - consider using SQLite for its simplicity.
```

>     * don't start it after running `newdb`

Reviewer 2: What's it - stellar-core? That should be explicit.

Author: it's under `Prepare a fresh new core ...` I guess it should be `Prepare a fresh new stellar-core...`

> 2. Perform a command line catchup to replay a range of ledger that includes the target range

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Perform a command line catchup to replay a range of ledger that includes the target range:
```

```
stellar-core --conf X.conf --catchup-at LOW_LEDGER --catchup-to ORIGINAL_LOW_LEDGER
```

> If this succeeds you can proceed to the next step

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If this succeeds you can proceed to next step - merging.
```

#### Merging steps

Repeat the following steps for the following sql tables:
* `ledgerheaders` (`ledgerseq`)
* `txhistory` (`ledgerseq`)
* `txfeehistory` (`ledgerseq`)

> not imported from history as of this writing:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Not imported from history as of this writing:
```

Reviewer 2: Does this also mean that you don't need to do this process for these tables? If so, we should make that explicit.

* `scphistory`
* `scpquorums`

We'll use `ledgerheaders` here to illustrate.

1. On the temporary node, export the data from `ledgerheaders` (save into a file `ledgerHeaders.sql`)
```sql
SELECT * from ledgerheaders WHERE ledgerseq >= LOW_LEDGER AND ledgerseq < ORIGINAL_LOW_LEDGER
```

> 2. (optional) verify that the hash of ledger `ORIGINAL_LOW_LEDGER-1` is the one stored in ledger `ORIGINAL_LOW_LEDGER`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. (optional) verify that the hash of ledger `ORIGINAL_LOW_LEDGER-1` (`ledgerhash`) is the one stored in ledger `ORIGINAL_LOW_LEDGER` (`prevhash`)
```

> 2. (optional) verify that the hash of ledger `ORIGINAL_LOW_LEDGER-1` is the one stored in ledger `ORIGINAL_LOW_LEDGER`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. (Optional) Verify that the hash of ledger `ORIGINAL_LOW_LEDGER - 1` is the one stored in ledger `ORIGINAL_LOW_LEDGER`.
```

```sql

> SELECT hash FROM ledgerheaders WHERE ledgerseq = ORIGINAL_LOW_LEDGER-1

Reviewer 3: SELECT ledgerhash FROM ledgerheaders WHERE ledgerseq = ORIGINAL_LOW_LEDGER-1

Author: thanks, updated!

```

> 3. Login into the core database

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Login into the stellar-core database and run the following:
```

```sql
SELECT prevhash FROM ledgerheaders WHERE ledgerseq = ORIGINAL_LOW_LEDGER
```

> verify that this value is the same than the `ledgerhash` returned on the previous step

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Verify that this value is the same than the `ledgerhash` returned on the previous step.
```

> 4.  and import the data exported in step 1

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4.  Import the data exported in step 1.
```

> 5. Verify that you do not have gaps

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. Verify that there aren't any gaps within the history.
```

```sql
SELECT lh1.ledgerseq FROM ledgerheaders AS lh1 WHERE lh1.ledgerseq NOT IN ( SELECT lh2.ledgerseq-1 FROM ledgerheaders AS lh2 WHERE lh2.ledgerseq = lh1.ledgerseq + 1);
```

> When this is done, you can start core, wait for it to catchup to the network.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When this is completed, you can start core and wait for it to catch up to the network.
```

> After that you can reset Horizon and have it ingest all data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Finally, you can reset Horizon and have it ingest all data from `stellar-core`.
```
